.NET Framework setup & compatibility docs edits (#9375)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/setup_overview/setup/dotnet-framework.md

      tag: "GitHub"
      text: "Examples of Custom Instrumentation"
---
## Compatibility requirements

The .NET Tracer supports automatic instrumentation on .NET Framework 4.5 and above. For a full list of supported libraries, visit the [Compatibility Requirements][1] page.

## Installation and getting started

### Follow the in-app documentation (Recommended)

Follow the [Quickstart instructions][2] within the Datadog app for the best experience, including:

- Step-by-step instructions scoped to your deployment configuration (hosts, Docker, Kubernetes, or Amazon ECS).
- Dynamically set `service`, `env`, and `version` tags.

> - Enable the Continuous Profiler, ingesting 100% of traces, and Trace ID injection into logs during setup.

Reviewer: The Continuous Profiler is not yet available for .NET.

      tag: "GitHub"
      text: "Examples of Custom Instrumentation"
---
## Compatibility requirements

The .NET Tracer supports automatic instrumentation on .NET Framework 4.5 and above. For a full list of supported libraries, visit the [Compatibility Requirements][1] page.

## Installation and getting started

### Follow the in-app documentation (Recommended)

Follow the [Quickstart instructions][2] within the Datadog app for the best experience, including:

- Step-by-step instructions scoped to your deployment configuration (hosts, Docker, Kubernetes, or Amazon ECS).
- Dynamically set `service`, `env`, and `version` tags.
- Enable the Continuous Profiler, ingesting 100% of traces, and Trace ID injection into logs during setup.

### Automatic instrumentation

<div class="alert alert-warning"> 

>   <strong>Note:</strong> Whether you're using custom or automatic instrumentation, it is important to keep the MSI installer and NuGet package versions in sync.

Reviewer 2: This should read "When using both custom and automatic instrumentation, ..."

Reviewer 3: Changed to avoid this phrasing altogether.

</div>

If you don't use the in-app documentation to guide you, you can follow these instructions to begin tracing .NET applications: 

#### IIS applications 

To start tracing an IIS application:

1. Install and configure the [Windows Datadog Agent][2]. 

2. Download the .NET Tracer [MSI installer][3].

3. Select the MSI installer for the architecture that matches the operating system (x64 or x86).

4. Install the .NET Tracer MSI installer with administrator privileges.

5. Restart IIS using the following command as an administrator: 

   ```text
   net stop /y was
   net start w3svc
   ```
6. Create application load. 

7. Visit [APM Live Traces][4]. 

#### Non-IIS applications

To enable automatic instrumentation on non-IIS Windows applications, you must set two environment variables before starting your application.

> <div class="alert alert-warning"> 

Reviewer 2: What do you think about moving this alert box until after the table?

  <strong>Note:</strong> The .NET runtime tries to load a profiler into any .NET process started with these environment variables set. You should limit instrumentation only to the applications that need to be traced. Don't set these environment variables globally because this causes all .NET processes on the host to load the profiler.
</div>

> Set these environment variables for the non-IIS applications you want to instrument:

Reviewer 2: You should either keep this line or the line before the alert box, as they say the same thing

| Name                   | Value                                    |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `COR_ENABLE_PROFILING` | `1`                                      |
| `COR_PROFILER`         | `{846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}` |

#### Windows services
To automatically instrument a Windows Service, set the `COR_ENABLE_PROFILING` and `COR_PROFILER` environment variables:

1. In the Windows Registry Editor, create a multi-string value named `Environment` in  `HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\<SERVICE NAME>`
2. Set the value data to: 

   ```text
   COR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
   COR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
   ```
     {{< img src="tracing/setup/dotnet/RegistryEditorFramework.png" alt="Registry Editor"  >}}

Alternatively, you can set the environment variables by using the following PowerShell snippet:

   {{< code-block lang="powershell" filename="add-env-var.ps1" >}}
   [String[]] $v = @("COR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1", "COR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}")
   Set-ItemProperty HKLM:SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\<NAME> -Name Environment -Value $v
   {{< /code-block >}}

> #### Console applications

Reviewer 2: Earlier there was a "non-IIS applications" section that seemed like it would have this information. I think the two sections should be combined or, if possible, make "Windows services" and "Console applications" sub-headings underneath "non-IIS applications"

The .NET Tracer supports automatic instrumentation on .NET Framework 4.5 and above. For a full list of supported libraries, visit the [Compatibility Requirements][1] page.

## Installation and Getting Started

### Follow the in-app Documentation (Recommended)

Follow the [Quickstart instructions][2] within the Datadog app for the best experience, including:

- Step-by-step instructions scoped to your deployment configuration (hosts, Docker, Kubernetes, or Amazon ECS).
- Dynamically set `service`, `env` and `version` tags.
- Enable the Continuous Profiler, ingesting 100% of traces, and Trace ID injection into logs during setup.

### Automatic Instrumentation

<div class="alert alert-warning" style="font-style: italic;"> 
  <p style="font-weight: bold; margin-bottom: 0px;">Note:<p/> 
    When using both custom and automatic instrumentation, it is important to keep the MSI installer and NuGet package versions in sync.
</div>

Otherwise, to begin tracing .NET applications: 

#### IIS Applications 

> 1. Install and configure the [Windows Datadog Agent][2]. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To start tracing a .NET application running in IIS:

1. Install and configure the [Windows Datadog Agent][2]. 
```

2. Download the .NET Tracer [MSI installer][3].

3. Select the MSI installer for the architecture that matches the operating system (x64 or x86).

4. Install the .NET Tracer MSI installer with administrator privileges.

5. Restart IIS using the following command within an a: 

   ```text
   net stop /y was
   net start w3svc
   ```
6. Create application load. 

7. Visit Datadog's [APM Live Traces][4]. 

### Required Environment Variables 

<div class="alert alert-warning" style="font-style: italic;"> 
  <p style="font-weight: bold; margin-bottom: 0px;">Note:<p/> The .NET runtime tries to load a profiler into any .NET process started with these environment variables set. You should limit instrumentation only to the applications that need to be traced. 
  <p style="font-weight: bold; margin-bottom: 0px">We do not recommend setting these environment variables globally as this causes all .NET processes on the host to load the profiler.<p/>

> </div>

Reviewer 3: We've jumped up to an h3 here, and it's unclear to me if these notes apply to the IIS app tracing instructions or the non-IIS app tracing instructions, or both. I *think* it's referring to the env vars mentioned below, and if so, we should put this info right beside them, not separated by the "Non-IIS Applications" heading, and not introduced by an h3. (That is, I think the docs structure for this was better the way it was, although we can add the alert-warning box around it if that helps.)

Reviewer 3: I moved this around a bit. let me know what you think.

#### Non-IIS Applications

For Windows applications, set these two environment variables before starting your application to enable automatic instrumentation:

| Name                   | Value                                    |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `COR_ENABLE_PROFILING` | `1`                                      |
| `COR_PROFILER`         | `{846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}` |

#### Windows Services
To automatically instrument a Windows Service:

1. Set the environment variables for the Service in the Windows Registry.

> 2. Create a multi-sting value called `Environment` in the `HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\<SERVICE NAME>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Create a multi-sting value called `Environment` in the `HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\<SERVICE NAME>` key.
```

3. Set the key's data to the value of: 

   ```text
   COR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
   COR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
   ```

> Setting the `COR_ENABLE_PROFILING` & `COR_PROFILER` environment variables can be achieved by:

Reviewer 3: Is this not step 1 in the previous ordered list? Why not put the instructions there?

1. Through the Windows Registry Editor:

>      {{< img src="tracing/setup/dotnet/RegistryEditorFramework.png" alt="Registry Editor"  >}}

Reviewer 3: In addition to the screen capture, we should also put this in words, so that someone using a screen reader doesn't miss out on the information.

example.exe
```

> ## Custom Instrumentation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Custom instrumentation
```

<div class="alert alert-warning" style="font-style: italic;"> 
  <p style="font-weight: bold; margin-bottom: 0px;">Note:<p/> 

>     When using both custom and automatic instrumentation, it is important to keep the MSI installer and NuGet package versions in sync.

Reviewer 3: Same comment as before.

</div>

> To utilize custom instrumentation: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use custom instrumentation in your .NET application: 
```

1. Add the `Datadog.Trace` [NuGet package][5] to your application.
2. In your application code, access the global tracer through the `Datadog.Trace.Tracer.Instance` property to create new spans.

> For additional details on custom instrumentation and custom tagging, please visit our [.NET Custom Instrumentation][6] documentation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For additional details on custom instrumentation and custom tagging, see the [.NET Custom Instrumentation][6] documentation. 
```

## Configuration

> The .NET Tracer has additional configuration setting which can be set with these methods:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The .NET Tracer has additional configuration settings which you can set by any of these methods:
```

- By setting the environment variables

> - The .NET application code

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Within the .NET application code
```

{{< /tabs >}}

## Configuration settings

Using the methods described above, customize your tracing configuration with these settings. Use the first name (for example, `DD_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`) when setting environment variables or configuration files. The second name (for example, `Enabled`), indicates the name for the `IntegrationSettings` property to use when changing settings in the code. Access these properties through the `TracerSettings.Integrations[]` indexer. 

### Unified Service Tagging

> To use [Unified Service Tagging][7], configure the `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` settings for your services. 

Reviewer: We shouldn't refer to the `DD_` settings here, since the name is different when configuring via code, e.g. `DD_ENV` vs `Environment`.

```suggestion
To use [Unified Service Tagging][7], configure the following settings for your services. 
```

| Setting Name                                        |Description                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `DD_ENV`<br/><br/>`Environment`                     | If specified, adds the `env` tag with the specified value to all generated spans. Available for versions 1.17.0+                                           |
| `DD_SERVICE`<br/><br/>`ServiceName`                 | If specified, sets the service name. Otherwise, the .NET Tracer tries to determine service name automatically from application name (e.g. IIS application name, process entry assembly, or process name). Available for versions 1.17.0+      |
| `DD_VERSION`<br/><br/>`ServiceVersion`              | If specified, sets the version of the service. Available for versions 1.17.0+

> | `DD_TAGS`<br/><br/>`GlobalTags`                     | If specified, adds all of the specified tags to all generated spans (e.g., `layer:api,team:intake`). Available for versions 1.17.0+                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer: Only `env`, `service`, and `version` are specific to "Unified Service Tagging". `DD_TAGS` should probably be in the table with other tracer settings.
See https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/tagging/unified_service_tagging

| `DD_TRACE_DEBUG`<br/><br/>`DebugEnabled`           | Enables or disables debug logging. Valid values are: `true` or `false` (default).                                                                                                                                 |
| `DD_TRACE_HEADER_TAGS`<br/><br/> `HeaderTags`       | Accepts a map of case-insensitive header keys to tag names and automatically applies matching header values as tags on root spans. (e.g. : `CASE-insensitive-Header:my-tag-name,User-ID:userId`). Available for version 1.18.3+      |

### Disable integration configuration

The following table lists configuration variables that are available **only** when using automatic instrumentation and can be set for each integration. 

| Setting Name                                                            | Description                                                                                                           |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `DD_TRACE_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`<br/><br/>`Enabled`                     | Enables or disables a specific integration. Valid values are: `true` (default) or `false`. Integration names are listed in the [Integrations][8] section.                           |

Reviewer 2: @lucaspimentel do you approve of this suggestion? This could remove the need for most of the text that was removed in this PR.

```suggestion
| `DD_TRACE_<INTEGRATION_NAME>_ENABLED`<br/><br/>`Integrations[<INTEGRATION_NAME>].Enabled`                     | Enables or disables a specific integration. Valid values are: `true` (default) or `false`. Integration names are listed in the [Integrations][8] section.                           |
```

Reviewer: Good idea. We may need to keep `<INTEGRATION>` instead of `<INTEGRATION_NAME>` to keep the non-breaking text from getting too wide inside the table, because formatting, but yeah.

Reviewer 3: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12926135/105223298-366b9280-5b21-11eb-8e05-4ca8f29da8f3.png)
I think INTEGRATION_NAME looks okay! The square brackets around it the second name are intentional, yes?

{{< /tabs >}}

## Configuration settings

> Using the methods described above, customize your tracing configuration with these settings. Use the first name (for example, `DD_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`) when setting environment variables or configuration files. The second name (for example, `Enabled`), indicates the name for the `IntegrationSettings` property to use when changing settings in the code. Access these properties through the `TracerSettings.Integrations[]` indexer. 

Reviewer 2: This text should be reverted to the previous text. The previous guidance was correct for everything but the integration settings (which have their own instructions later) but the new text only applies to the integration settings and is wrong for the majority of settings

Author: Thanks for catching this - lets revert this back to its original cc. @kayayarai

> Using the methods described above, customize your tracing configuration with these settings. Use the first name (for example, `DD_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`) when setting environment variables or configuration files. The second name (for example, `Enabled`), indicates the name for the `IntegrationSettings` property to use when changing settings in the code. Access these properties through the `TracerSettings.Integrations[]` indexer. 

Author: I would like to keep the details and instructions shorter - can we consolidate this to be less wordy?

> Using the methods described above, customize your tracing configuration with these settings. Use the first name (for example, `DD_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`) when setting environment variables or configuration files. The second name (for example, `Enabled`), indicates the name for the `IntegrationSettings` property to use when changing settings in the code. Access these properties through the `TracerSettings.Integrations[]` indexer. 

Reviewer: There are two different types of settings (some are integration-specific, some are not) and they are accessed differently, so they need different instructions. This is why they are in separate tables. I'm happy with making them shorter and simpler, as long as they are correct.

> Using the methods described above, customize your tracing configuration with these settings. Use the first name (for example, `DD_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`) when setting environment variables or configuration files. The second name (for example, `Enabled`), indicates the name for the `IntegrationSettings` property to use when changing settings in the code. Access these properties through the `TracerSettings.Integrations[]` indexer. 

Reviewer: Another option could be to split the env var name (`DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL`) and the C# property name (`AgentUri`) into separate sections (env vars vs code), then the instructions could be less wordy.

> Using the methods described above, customize your tracing configuration with these settings. Use the first name (for example, `DD_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`) when setting environment variables or configuration files. The second name (for example, `Enabled`), indicates the name for the `IntegrationSettings` property to use when changing settings in the code. Access these properties through the `TracerSettings.Integrations[]` indexer. 

Reviewer 2: If we want to keep these all in the same table instead of breaking out, here's my suggestion. @lucaspimentel what do you think?

```suggestion
Using the methods described above, customize your tracing configuration with these settings. When adding settings via environment variables or configuration files, use the first name (for example, `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL`) . When adding settings via code, use the `TracerSettings` property that corresponds to the second name, if present.
```

> Using the methods described above, customize your tracing configuration with these settings. Use the first name (for example, `DD_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`) when setting environment variables or configuration files. The second name (for example, `Enabled`), indicates the name for the `IntegrationSettings` property to use when changing settings in the code. Access these properties through the `TracerSettings.Integrations[]` indexer. 

Reviewer 3: I have gone with keeping them in the same tables, and using the wording that zach suggested most recently here. Thank you!

### Unified Service Tagging

To use [Unified Service Tagging][7], configure the `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` settings for your services. 

| Setting Name                                        |Description                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `DD_ENV`<br/><br/>`Environment`                     | If specified, adds the `env` tag with the specified value to all generated spans. Available for versions 1.17.0+                                           |

> | `DD_SERVICE`<br/><br/>`ServiceName`                 | If specified, sets the service name. Otherwise, the .NET Tracer tries to determine service name automatically from application name (e.g. IIS application name, process entry assembly, or process name). Available for versions 1.17.0+      |

Author: This sounds fine, my only concern around this would be how we decide to word this with the limited space we have. If there are suggestions then please share - I am indifferent just want to call out the concerns.

> | `DD_SERVICE`<br/><br/>`ServiceName`                 | If specified, sets the service name. Otherwise, the .NET Tracer tries to determine service name automatically from application name (e.g. IIS application name, process entry assembly, or process name). Available for versions 1.17.0+      |

Reviewer: > with the limited space we have

My suggestion is shorter than the existing text 😅
Another even shorter alternative: `Added in x.y.z`.

> | `DD_SERVICE`<br/><br/>`ServiceName`                 | If specified, sets the service name. Otherwise, the .NET Tracer tries to determine service name automatically from application name (e.g. IIS application name, process entry assembly, or process name). Available for versions 1.17.0+      |

Reviewer 2: I like `Added in x.y.z` 😄

| `DD_VERSION`<br/><br/>`ServiceVersion`              | If specified, sets the version of the service. Available for versions 1.17.0+
| `DD_TAGS`<br/><br/>`GlobalTags`                     | If specified, adds all of the specified tags to all generated spans (e.g., `layer:api,team:intake`). Available for versions 1.17.0+                                                                                                                                              |

> ### Automatic instrumentation optional configuration

Author: Yes, thank you for catching that - cc. @kayayarai

| `DD_TRACE_LOG_PATH`                                             | Sets the path for the automatic instrumentation log file and determines the directory of all other .NET Tracer log files. Ignored if `DD_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY` is set.                                                                                                                    |
| `DD_DISABLED_INTEGRATIONS`<br/><br/>`DisabledIntegrationNames`  | Sets a list of integrations to disable. All other integrations remain enabled. If not set, all integrations are enabled. Supports multiple values separated with semicolons. Valid values are the integration names listed in the [Integrations][8] section.                             |
| `DD_TRACE_ADONET_EXCLUDED_TYPES`<br/><br/>`AdoNetExcludedTypes` | Sets a list of `AdoNet` types (for example, `System.Data.SqlClient.SqlCommand`) that will be excluded from automatic instrumentation. |

### Additional optional configuration

> The following table lists the supported configuration variables that are available for both automatic (`.MSI`) and custom (`NuGet`) instrumentation.

Reviewer 2: It seems unnecessary to have the "(`.MSI`)" and "(`NuGet`)" in the sentence. I'd recommend removing them

| `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT`                               | Sets the port where traces are sent (the port where the Agent is listening for connections). Ignored if `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL` is set. Default value is `8126`.                                                     |
| `DD_LOGS_INJECTION`<br/><br/>`LogsInjectionEnabled` | Enables or disables automatic injection of correlation identifiers into application logs.                                                                                                                         |
| `DD_TRACE_DEBUG`<br/><br/>`DebugEnabled`           | Enables or disables debug logging. Valid values are: `true` or `false` (default).                                                                                                                                 |
| `DD_TRACE_HEADER_TAGS`<br/><br/> `HeaderTags`       | Accepts a map of case-insensitive header keys to tag names and automatically applies matching header values as tags on root spans. (e.g. : `CASE-insensitive-Header:my-tag-name,User-ID:userId`). Available for version 1.18.3+      |

### Disable integration configuration

> The following table lists configuration variables that are available **only** when using automatic instrumentation and can be set for each integration. 

Reviewer 2: I think you should keep the original text here, as the text describes the behavior that is specific to disabling integrations

Author: I am fine with keeping the same text - but I would rather it be in a note or something additional instead of just attached to the main content. The goal here is to keep the text very lean - if we can reword that section at all and possibly add it to a note or something then I am fine with adding it back.

Reviewer: Whatever we decide to do (main content or note), we should do the same for all the tables (global settings, automatic instrumentation settings, integration settings) for consistency.

| Setting Name                                                            | Description                                                                                                           |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `DD_TRACE_<INTEGRATION>_ENABLED`<br/><br/>`Enabled`                     | Enables or disables a specific integration. Valid values are: `true` (default) or `false`. Integration names are listed in the [Integrations][8] section.                           |

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /tracing/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-framework
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/basic_agent_usage/windows/?tab=gui
[3]: https://github.com/datadog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases/latest
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/apm/traces
[5]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Datadog.Trace
[6]: /tracing/custom_instrumentation/dotnet/
[7]: /getting_started/tagging/unified_service_tagging/

> [8]: /tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-framework/#integrations

Author: I am not sure I follow - AspNetCore docs have not been touched yet.

> [8]: /tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-framework/#integrations

Reviewer: It looks like this PR modifies 3 of the 4 related files:
- ✔️ `content/en/tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-core.md`
- ✔️ `content/en/tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-framework.md`
- ✔️ `content/en/tracing/setup_overview/setup/dotnet-framework.md`
- ❌  `content/en/tracing/setup_overview/setup/dotnet-core.md`

Most of the changes in this file (`.../setup/dotnet-framework.md`) should be copied over to `.../setup/dotnet-core.md` to keep them in sync. Or we can revert the changes to this file and update _both_ in a separate PR.

> [8]: /tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-framework/#integrations

Author: Ah, yes - not sure how that got in there. This PR should only be for .NET Framework and .NET Framework Compatibility section.

{{< /tabs >}}

> ## Configuration Settings

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Configuration settings
```

### Unified Service Tagging

> To utilize [Unified Service Tagging][7] we recommend that to configure the `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` settings for your services. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use [Unified Service Tagging][7], configure the `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` settings for your services. 
```

| `DD_ENV`<br/><br/>`Environment`                     | If specified, adds the `env` tag with the specified value to all generated spans. Available for versions 1.17.0+                                           |
| `DD_SERVICE`<br/><br/>`ServiceName`                 | If specified, sets the service name. Otherwise, the .NET Tracer tries to determine service name automatically from application name (e.g. IIS application name, process entry assembly, or process name). Available for versions 1.17.0+      |
| `DD_VERSION`<br/><br/>`ServiceVersion`              | If specified, sets the version of the service. Available for versions 1.17.0+
| `DD_TAGS`<br/><br/>`GlobalTags`                     | If specified, adds all of the specified tags to all generated spans (e.g., `layer:api,team:intake`). Available for versions 1.17.0+                                                                                                                                              |

> ### Automatic Instrumentation Optional Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Automatic instrumentation optional configuration
```

| `DD_TRACE_LOG_PATH`                                             | Sets the path for the automatic instrumentation log file and determines the directory of all other .NET Tracer log files. Ignored if `DD_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY` is set.                                                                                                                    |
| `DD_DISABLED_INTEGRATIONS`<br/><br/>`DisabledIntegrationNames`  | Sets a list of integrations to disable. All other integrations remain enabled. If not set, all integrations are enabled. Supports multiple values separated with semicolons. Valid values are the integration names listed in the [Integrations][8] section.                             |
| `DD_TRACE_ADONET_EXCLUDED_TYPES`<br/><br/>`AdoNetExcludedTypes` | Sets a list of `AdoNet` types (for example, `System.Data.SqlClient.SqlCommand`) that will be excluded from automatic instrumentation. |

> ### Additional Optional Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Additional optional configuration
```

| `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT`                               | Sets the port where traces are sent (the port where the Agent is listening for connections). Ignored if `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL` is set. Default value is `8126`.                                                     |
| `DD_LOGS_INJECTION`<br/><br/>`LogsInjectionEnabled` | Enables or disables automatic injection of correlation identifiers into application logs.                                                                                                                         |
| `DD_TRACE_DEBUG`<br/><br/>`DebugEnabled`           | Enables or disables debug logging. Valid values are: `true` or `false` (default).                                                                                                                                 |
| `DD_TRACE_HEADER_TAGS`<br/><br/> `HeaderTags`       | Accepts a map of case-insensitive header keys to tag names and automatically applies matching header values as tags on root spans. (e.g. : `CASE-insensitive-Header:my-tag-name,User-ID:userId`). Available for version 1.18.3+      |

> ### Disable Integration Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Disable integration configuration
```
